Hello, I'm Jonathan Bingham, a product manager at Google.
I'm going to talk about how the web
could provide native support for machine learning or ML.
Next slide.
slide-2
This proposal is being incubated
in the machine learning community group.
You can read all about it on the website
and in GitHub.
Slide three.
slide-3
The basic concept of the Model Loader API
is that a web developer has a pre-trained ML model
that's available by URL.
The model itself might've been created by a data scientist
at the developer's company or organization
or it could be shared
as a public model available to anybody online.
With just the model URL,
a few lines of JavaScript can load the model
and compile it to the native hardware.
After that, the web app can perform predictions with it.
The particular ML model could be anything.
It could perform image classification on a selected photo.
It could detect an abusive comment
that a user is typing into a text field,
or it could transform a video feed
to create augmented reality.
Really any idea you might have.
Slide four.
slide-4
Why would developers want to do this
inside the browser on the client side?
Why not do it on the server?
According to the TensorFlow.js team,
there are three main reasons.
Lower latency, greater privacy,
and lower serving cost.
Latency because no request and response
needs to go to the server and come back.
Privacy because all of the data that's fed into the model
can live on the device and never go to the servers.
And then lower serving cost because
the cost of doing the prediction
is not borne by the host website.
The cost of doing the computation
is done on the user's device.
Slide five.
slide-5
None of these benefits are specific to TensorFlow.js.
They apply to any JavaScript library
for machine learning on the web.
Here are just a few of the other options.
There are many.
Slide six.
slide-6
Now you might wonder
if there are already so many JavaScript libraries
out there for doing ML,
why create a new web standard?
After all the community has risen to the occasion
and has made these great libraries available.
Standards take a long time to get agreed on
and then implemented in browsers.
Why not just use a JavaScript library today?
Slide seven.
slide-7
The short answer is speed.
It's all about performance.
ML is compute intensive, faster processors
unlock new applications and make new experiences possible.
For certain kinds of computation,
ML runs much faster on GPUs than it does on CPUs.
And new tensor processing units
and other ML specific hardware
runs much faster even than GPUs for some workloads.
That's why the major hardware vendors
like Intel, Nvidia, Qualcomm,
and yes, Google and Apple,
are all working on new chips to make ML run faster.
We'd like web developers to be able to get access
to the performance benefits too.
The web platform and web standards
are how we can enable that.
Slide eight.
slide-8
We already have evidence
that some of the recent web standards
have improved performance for ML, sometimes dramatically.
The TensorFlow team ran some benchmarks
comparing plain JavaScript to WebAssembly,
WebAssembly with SIMD, and WebGL.
The results show that mobile net models
run 10 to 20 times faster on WebGL
compared to plain JavaScript.
That's a huge performance boost.
That's great.
But these standards are not specific to ML
and they weren't created to make ML workloads
specifically run faster.
They were created for graphics
or for general purpose computing.
The question is, is there room for even more improvement?
If the browser can take advantage of native hardware,
that really is optimized for ML.
Slide nine.
slide-9
The short answer is yes.
Ningxin at Intel has done
probably more benchmarking on this than anyone.
Results that he had produced a year ago
showed that running even one or two ML operations
that are very compute intensive
and common in deep learning in neural networks
can lead to much faster performance.
Importantly, the performance gains are even larger
than what's available with WebGL or WebAssembly alone.
There are some performance gains that can be unlocked by
adding new standards beyond just general purpose
computing APIs.
Slide 10.
slide-10
The previous slides showed the benefit of accelerating
just a few computational operations
using some recently added web standards
that are very low level.
They provide access to binary execution
in the case of WebAssembly or GPUs in the case of WebGL.
There are other ways we could help web developers
run ML faster, some a little higher level.
All these different approaches though
have benefits and challenges.
Let's look at four of the alternatives.
slide-11
We've already seen that operations,
this is slide 11 now,
can provide a large performance boost.
They're small, simple APIs, which is great.
We could add more low level APIs
to accelerate deep learning
like convolution, matrix multiplication.
There's a limit to how much performance gain
can be achieved
looking at operations individually though.
An ML model is a graph of many operations typically.
If some can happen on GPUs, but others happen on CPUs,
it can be expensive to switch back and forth
between the two contexts.
Memory buffers might need to be copied,
execution handoffs can take time.
Also web developers aren't likely to directly use
these low level operation APIs.
They'll typically rely on JavaScript libraries
like TensorFlow.js to deal with all of
the low level details for them.
Slide 12.
slide-12
Next, let's look at graph APIs.
One of the most popular examples of a graph API for ML
is the neural network API for Android.
It supports models trained in multiple ML frameworks
like TensorFlow and PyTorch.
And it can run on mobile devices with various chip sets.
These are all great attributes.
The NN API was the inspiration for
the web neural network proposal
that's also being incubated in the web ML community group.
By building up a graph of low level operations
in JavaScript,
and then handing off the whole graph
to the browser for execution,
it's possible to do smart things
like run everything on GPUs
or split up the graph and decide which parts
to run on which chips.
One big challenge for a graph API
is that it has JavaScript APIs
for every different operation that's supported.
For perspective,
the Android NN API supports over 120 operations.
TensorFlow supports more than 1,000.
That number has been growing by around 20% per year,
which makes it really challenging to standardize.
Slide 13.
slide-13
You can learn more about the web neural network API proposal
on the website.
There's a whole bunch of information
and some active GitHub issues and threads
and discussion that's been going on.
Slide 14.
slide-14
Compared to operations APIs, or a graph API,
an application specific API, like the shape detection API
is something that a web developer would use directly.
It's super simple.
No JavaScript ML library is required.
You can look at the code snippet on this slide.
To the extent that there are specific ML applications
that are common, that developers want access to
and that are likely to remain common for many years,
it makes sense to provide an easy way
to add them to a web app.
Most of the animation in ML though
is happening with custom models.
A company might want to optimize their ML models
based on their own locale or their product catalog
or other features that a high level API
would have a hard time accommodating.
You know, there are a small number of APIs
that are extremely valuable,
that are common, that many people would want to use.
It makes sense to have an API for each of those.
But there's a much larger number of potential models
that people would want to run.
And you can't easily make an API for each one of those.
Slide 15.
slide-15
The Model Loader API tries to strike the balance
between flexibility and developer friendliness.
It provides a small, simple JavaScript service
that could stand the test of time.
It supports all of the performance optimizations
that you can get with a graph API.
The main difference from the graph API
is that it moves the definition
for the 100 or more operations from JavaScript,
as in the graph API, into the model file format,
just stored at a URL.
That file still needs to be parsed and validated
by the browser
and secured against potentially malicious code.
Machine learning execution engines,
like CoreML, TensorFlow, and WinML
already know how to execute an ML model
in their respective formats
and they can be optimized
for the underlying operating system.
Slide 16.
slide-16
Summarizing the options for ML APIs on the web then:
the goal for all of them is to increase performance.
That's why we want to have ML specific APIs
rather than just do everything in JavaScript
using existing general purpose APIs.
There are multiple approaches
and each one of them has pros and cons.
The Model Loader API
is complementary to the others
and we could choose to pursue it
in addition to one or more of the other approaches.
We could do all of them, or we could pick one.
We don't know yet though which is really the best.
So
I'd like to see us move ahead
and get some feedback from developers
who are going to actually use these APIs.
Slide 17.
slide-17
There's some important caveats.
It's really important to call them out
because these are potential showstoppers
and we need to be aware of them upfront.
The first major caveat
is just that ML is evolving super fast.
New operations and approaches are being invented
by researchers and published literally every day.
Hardware is evolving as well.
That's on a slower cycle,
of course, because of the cost of fabrication
and setting up
manufacturing at scale.
But hardware is changing quickly, too.
Meanwhile, the web is forever.
Backwards compatibility is essential.
Just as an example,
the neural network API hasn't really solved
backwards compatibility despite broad adoption.
The web is just getting started with ML standards.
So it's early.
Finally, there are multiple popular ML frameworks.
TensorFlow is one of them.
CoreML, and WinML are really important too
because those are the frameworks
that operating system vendors,
Apple and Microsoft, support natively.
Each of these frameworks chooses what set of operations
to support and they make those decisions independently
with their own communities.
That means that they all have chosen differently
and are choosing differently,
and they're evolving at different rates.
There's only partial overlap
from one ML framework to the next
in terms of what operations they support.
And conversion is not possible in general.
Fortunately, a subset of those operations
can be converted and standardized.
There's an initiative called ONNX
that is working on exactly this problem.
But it's worth calling out that conversion is hard
and is not going to be a hundred percent complete.
My personal perspective
is that the Model Loader API gives us a way to explore
ML on the web with full hardware acceleration
while all of these uncertainties are being worked out.
Slide 18.
slide-18
I want to conclude with a status report
about where the Model Loader API is
in the standards process.
Currently, it's incubating in a community group.
Engineers in Chrome and ChromeOS are working on
an experimental browser build
with TF-lite integration as a backend.
It's a goal
to be able to support other ML engines as well.
There's a bunch of tactical things to work out
like process isolation, file validation,
security protection.
Once those have been addressed,
the next step would be to implement
the Model Loader API on top of it
and to make a custom browser build available
so that developers could take a look at it.
We'd really like to get feedback from some early developers
to understand what we can do to make a better API
and whether this is the right level of abstraction.
Slide 19.
slide-19
Thank you for listening.
This is the end of the talk.
You can read more about the Model Loader API
in the WebML Community Group site on GitHub.
Thank you.
(techno music)